# Shrinkage-estimator-of-covariance-matrix
# Harry Markowitz introduced the Modern Portfolio Theory (MPT) for the first time in 1952 that has been applied widely for optimal portfolio selection until now. However, the theory still has some limitations that come from the instability of covariance matrix input. This leads the selected portfolio from MPT model to fluctuate continuously over time and to suffer high transaction costs. The traditional estimator of covariance matrix has not solved yet. Therefore, the purpose of this research is to apply a shrinkage estimator of covariance matrix for selecting the optimal portfolios on Vietnam stock market. The empirical results show that the shrinkage approach has much better performance than other traditional methods on almost the performance metrics in term of return, level of risk, Sharpe ratio, maximum drawdown (MDD) and Jensen’s Alpha; especially the difference is event more evident when the dimension of covariance matrix increases.
# To evaluate the feasibility and application potential of the shrinkage estimator of covariance matrix and other estimators, a back-testing process based on the Python programming language has been developed and applied in this study. The authors will use historical data in order to assess the efficacy of the shrinkage estimation method as opposed to other approaches for determining the optimal portfolio. Algorithmic trading enables an investor to forecast future results more reliably based on past performance, thanks to the ample availability of data. Moreover, back-testing allows the (prior) statistical properties of the strategy to be examined, providing insight into whether a strategy can be profitable in the future.
# Based on the back-testing system, a rolling horizon procedure is applied to calculate the performance metrics of portfolio. The performance metrics include the portfolio’s return, portfolio’s risk, Sharpe ratio, maximum drawdown, portfolio turnover, winning rate, and Jensen’s Alpha.
